# Design Patterns Implemented into the Contract

#### 1. Circuit Breaker / Emergency Stop Pattern
A emergency_stop value is default set to false. There is a modifier for every function in the contract that only lets the function run if the emergency_stop is false. Only the Owner has the ability to change the state of the emergency stop, but the Owner can set it to true and stop all contract functions until the Owner sets the stop back to false.

#### 2. Admin Power Pattern
A group called Admins is given specific powers to oversee the adminstration of the contract. Only the Owner can add addresses to the Admin group. These users in the Admin group have the ability to add Institutions to the platform. Since we only want vetted and trustworthy Institutions to have the ability to give out degrees or ceritificates, and to prevent duplicate or fraudulent Institutions, we do not let Institutions add themselves. For users and third parties to trust the resumes on this platform, not only do the transactions themselves have to be verified (using Ethereum blockchain to handle this) but also the actors on the platform have to be trustworthy.

#### 3. Entry Queue / User Approval Pattern
To add another layer of redundancy, a resume queue is used to hold entries from Institutions before they are approved by Users. This is similar to a Commit/Push pattern in Git as another layer for vetting errors. In the naive sense, if an Institution creates an entry in error, or sends it to the wrong User, then the User has a chance to reject this Entry and also contact the Institution to work out the error. We want to make sure that a User's resume is a source of truth that accurately reflects their history with few or no modifications. In the more extreme case, this prevents malicious-acting Institutions to send out erroneous entries to Users. This does put the onus on Users to check their resume queues to see if there are those that require approval. However, Users are incentivized to approve or reject their entries so that they can build vetted, reputable, and complete resumes on this site to present to third parties and the outside world.

#### 4. Single Entry Return Pattern
The viewResume and showMyResumeQueue functions only return a single entry. For the former function, it shows a specified element in a User's resume. For the latter function, it shows the next entry up in the resume queue chronologically based on oldest added entry with FIFO principles. Solidity does not have a good way to return entire arrays. Nor is it safe from a function execution standpoint to return items of unspecified size because the gas could run out mid execution without knowing the full size of the item returned. That is why only returning an single entry makes more sense than looping over an entire queue or resume to return every entry. In order to assist with these functions, checkQueueSize and checkResumeSize functions have been added so Users and third parties can check the size of the queues and resumes first before deciding which entry or how many entries to view.

#### 5. Queue Privacy / Public Resume Pattern
A User is restricted to viewing only their own resume queues. That provides privacy so that the User can approve entries before they are made public. However, resumes themselves become public record so anyone can view those. That makes resumes a source of public truth that third parties can rely on for example for recruiters who want to check a resume before hiring. 

#### 6. Entry ID Queues and Resume Storage Pattern
Resumes and resume queues are made up of arrays of entry IDs instead of actual entry objects. By using a number that points to an entry in the entries array, this reduces the amount of data that has be transfered when moving an entry from the queue to the official resume. Instead of sending an entry object, it is simply removing and adding a single number from the queue to the resume. This also let's us keep a central repository of all entries in the entries array and tracks the order at which the entries were created based on the sequential entry ID. 